Social media is entering a brand new era
for brands, for creators, for anyone
that's using content to build a
business. We're officially entering a
reset period. And the future of social
media is going to work a lot differently
than it has the past couple years. Now,
the good news is there are lots of new
ways to win that just weren't possible
before. I know this because I spend all
day on the cutting edge of content,
marketing, and distribution. I have a
million followers. I've done billions of
views. and I'm starting to see trends
and patterns that are not obvious to the
average person, but are massive
opportunities. So, in this video, I'm
going to walk through the five most
interesting social media shifts
happening right now so that you can take
advantage before everyone else. All
right, this first social media
opportunity is very interesting. And
that trend is the evolution of AI
content and how it's affecting the
social media game. Now, 6 months ago, I
made this video breaking down the
trajectory of AI tools and how soon
those tools would be able to make
content that was indistinguishable from
humanmade. And I said that if that trend
continued, social platforms would get
flooded with AI content. The supply
would go up 10,000x, the demand would
stay relatively flat, and so human
creators would eventually get drowned
out. And to some extent, this is playing
out exactly how I thought. The AI
content models are starting to get to
the point where they're
indistinguishable from human-made
content. Nano Banana Pro, Veo 3, and
soon to come Veo 4, the Cling models,
these are all objectively insane.
Perfect realism, indistinguishable for
99.9% of people. And so, if you know
what to look for, we are seeing fully
automated autonomous workflows that are
churning out AI content almost
automatically. But there's also
something else going on in parallel that
I did not predict or expect. And I'm
calling it the AI content revolution.
I'm starting to sense an active revolt
from humans towards anything at all that
is even remotely AI made. It's as if all
humans have a joint understanding to
instab anything with even a sniff of AI.
And this is happening at the platform
level. We're seeing YouTube out of
nowhere just banning AI faceless
channels. and at the individual level
where people are essentially
softancelling creators if they sense
that any of their stuff is made by AI.
So what does all this mean and where's
the big opportunity for you? What this
means is that we are in the very early
stages of an AI content revolution and
are going to continue to see a
divergence in how the social media game
is played. On one side, the platforms
that do allow AI content are essentially
going to become overrun by AI
personalities, bot-driven content
swarms, and algorithmic content
factories. And my initial hunch 6 months
ago was that this trend was going to
infiltrate and basically ruin the entire
content world. But now, I'm more
convinced than ever based on what I'm
seeing in the comments that there's
going to be a counterculture revolution
where human-made or human verified
actually will exist and thrive in the
future. And if for nothing else, simply
because human viewers are rejecting the
AI made notion a lot more violently than
I thought they would. And so if you're
watching this, there really only two
questions that matter with respect to
how you can take advantage. Number one,
should I play the AI content game or the
humanmade content game? And number two,
if I choose to play the humanmade
content game, what tweaks or shifts in
my strategy can I make to take advantage
of this counterculture movement as it
grows? And so let's answer both of
those. In my opinion, playing the AI
faceless content game is a losing
proposition that you should stay away
from unless you really know what you're
doing. At best, you rack millions of
slot views and play the advertising game
where you only monetize based on the CPM
share from the platforms. But I promise
you, this advertising CPM game is going
to go to zero over time. It's just math.
And a good way to look at it is like
this. If you play the AI faceless
content game, it's basically like every
time you post, you pull a slot machine,
but whenever you pull, your odds of
winning are going down over time in real
time. And this is simply because the
increasing supply of AI faceless content
will compound in a hockey stick curve.
But regardless of that, if you're a
business owner, this is the real reason
why playing the AI faceless content game
is not best. If you play the AI faceless
content game, what you trade off is the
human trust acrruel that really drives
off-platform purchase. And that's still
where all the money really is when
you're playing on social media. Said
another way, if there's nobody to trust
in the content, then trust will not be
acred. And if trust is not acred,
purchase will not happen. Buyers just do
not buy without trust. And so if you
make AI faceless content, the bar for
trust goes up as the facilitation of
that trust goes down. And so as the bar
for trust is going higher on the
internet, your content will stay fixed
at low trust. Now, the gray area here
when it comes to AI content is using an
AI avatar of yourself or some consistent
character that shows up every single
video. This technically counts as AI
generated, but psychologically will
function as human-made as long as the
viewer can't tell. But it's risky
because as soon as they can tell you're
not a human and you're an AI avatar,
they will write off the entire channel
forever. And again, the reason I'm
calling this out as the first point in
this video is because I just did not
predict humans would have this visceral
of a negative reaction against AI
content. I thought they would kind of
complain about it a little bit, but
assuming AI content was the same or
better as all the human stuff, I figured
people would just watch whatever is
entertaining. But I'm really seeing a
ton of comments from a lot of different
people that are viscerally against this
idea of AI made. So my recommendation
for any business owner is to lean
heavily into the human-made content
game. The alpha is to zag towards
humanmade while everybody else zigs
towards AI content. Now this doesn't
mean AI content is not going to work. Of
course it will. Over time as the data
iteration loops get tighter and faster.
AI content will 100% work. But the buyer
psychology for trusting and purchasing
from humans is such that you will get
rewarded way more in the next 5 to 10
years if you can lean into humanmade as
a part of your brand. Okay, so that
brings us to the second question which
is how will the humanmade side of
content evolve on social media and how
should you tweak your strategy so you
can really take advantage of this window
over the next few years. And so for the
rest of the video, I'm going to break
down a bunch of other opportunities and
shifts that all play into this same
macro theme of humanmade is where all
the trust and buyer attention is going.
And so I'll break down how to take
advantage. All right, the second major
social media opportunity and trend is
the shift towards raw, long form, and
live stream content. If you watch
Hormosi, you'll notice recently on
YouTube, he shifted way into the live
stream, raw aspect of content. He
basically turns on the camera, riffs for
a few hours, and posts relatively uncut.
Now, they're tightening up the intro,
and they've got a few different
multicams to try to add a little bit of
stimulation, but that's basically it. On
a scale of 1 to 10 in terms of retention
editing, he's really close to a 1 or two
right now. Now, why is he doing this?
And how is it an insight into the future
of how social media and YouTube are
going to evolve? For one, it's just way
easier and more fun for him to make.
People that have real sauce, they just
want to share it raw. They don't want to
have to read line by line scripts. they
just kind of want to go off the top of
their head and share their insight. But
two, and the more important reason, he
understands the principle of content
minutes. Now, if you've been watching
this channel for a while, you probably
already understand the content minutes
concept. But for those who haven't,
essentially, the more minutes you can
get someone to watch your content, the
faster you can accumulate trust and the
quicker you can ascend to purchase. Live
streaming is the most efficient way to
build a bigger supply of content minutes
for someone to consume. Because if
you're posting 2-hour long videos every
single day, that's 120 fresh content
minutes daily that you're adding to the
supply. There's just no other way to
produce that much content that quickly.
So, I predict just like Gary Vee and now
Hermoszi, a lot of the other bigger
educational creators are going to shift
to add this live stream layer at the
bottom of the content funnel. And I
personally am going to start doing this
in 2026 as well. Now, the good news is
these types of videos are actually
easier to make for the creator because
all you have to do if you really know
what you're talking about is turn on the
camera and go. But here is a very big
warning to everyone watching this
thinking they're going to shift their
long- form strategy to just be raw live
streams. Live streaming as a format will
only work if you have a previously
existing personal brand or top 1%
charisma. For everyone else, it will not
work the way you think. Now, why is
this? Live streaming as a format is
inherently high noise. If you watch
every second of what someone says over
two hours without any filtering, you're
inherently going to get a lot of lower
value dead time. Now, Hormosi and Gary
Vee are able to get away with this
because A, they're deep enough in the
tactics to really know what they're
talking about, and B, they're articulate
enough in their delivery to compress
speed to value so that you get enough
value hits over time to make it worth
it. Also, Gary is top 1% charismatic,
and so that adds another element to make
you want to watch. It's almost like
entertaining to watch him as a
performer. But for the average person
that has not made a bunch of content or
doesn't have a very tight articulation
on camera, this is not going to be the
case. The brutal truth is that most
people are either not articulate enough
nor charismatic enough to carry a live
stream for 2 hours with the value
density required to make it work. And
this means that when a beginner starts
live streaming from scratch, the speed
to value slows, the value density
decreases, and the new viewer that hits
that video will churn in the first
couple minutes. And this means your live
streams will get weak metrics, not get
pushed by YouTube, and you will not grow
an audience from it. Now, people with
existing personal brands, especially if
you have a lot of proof, have enough
trust carryover that viewers that know
you from somewhere else, are usually
willing to see through that lower value
density and give your live streams a
chance. That's why existing personal
brands, even if it's built on a
different channel, can work if you start
live streaming. So, here's my super
tactical advice for every type of person
watching this for how you should take
advantage of live streams coming up in
the next year. If you have a personal
brand already on any platform, you
should add live streams in the stack
coming up in 2026. Don't think about it,
just do it. And the goal with these live
streams is not to grow your channel.
You're not going to get a lot of new
people discovering you from the live
streams. The goal is to be the bottom of
the funnel that nurtures with as much
depth as possible for the people that
already trust and like you. I like to
think of live streams as a nurture
machine. Now, if you're doing it on
YouTube, you still need to heavily
prioritize the packaging, the title, the
thumbnail, the intro, but when it comes
to the actual video itself, you should
be able to make this relatively raw and
uncut. Now, if you don't have a personal
brand, don't start with live streams in
2026. Instead, you need to first sprint
to relevance and then add live streams.
Here's the four-step process that I
would use to sprint to relevance. Step
one is that you actually need to have
skills or a unique perspective that's
worth hearing. So if you don't have
that, you need to first focus on that.
What does that mean? Go out, build a
skill, and then build proof that your
skill actually works. You have a
differentiated perspective on how to
implement that skill to get the results
someone would want. Start there before
anything else. Step two, once you have
that core set of skills and some proof
that you know what you're doing, go to a
different platform where your core buyer
lives and post a high volume of valued
content. Typically, this is going to be
short form video on either Instagram,
Tik Tok, or LinkedIn. And this is
critical because what you're trying to
do is build a pool of personal brandaw
aare viewers. People that know you and
know your face that would be willing to
give your live streams a chance once you
start them. And here's how to think
about it. If the content minute
threshold to get someone to buy is 100
and you're at a zero, maybe to get them
to try your live stream is a 15. And so
what you want to do is sprint to 15
using some other platform with a lot of
discovery. Short form video is typically
the best way on Instagram, Tik Tok, or
LinkedIn. Go from a 0 to 15. And then
once you have enough people at a 15,
then you can start adding live streams
at the bottom of the funnel designed
specifically to nurture those people at
a 15. It's not meant to grow more zeros.
It's meant to get people at 15 to 100 as
fast as possible. To go back to the
steps, step three, once you start
posting on that short form medium,
compound just that for 6 to 12 months to
build that critical mass, that pool of
people at a level 15 as big as you can.
You just need enough critical mass here
so that when you do post a live stream,
the views of the live stream can be big
enough where an incrementally new person
doesn't write it off immediately. If you
have a YouTube channel with 20,000 subs,
but then you post a live stream with 150
viewers, the incremental person coming
to that is not going to watch it because
something looks wrong. The views look
too low. So, what you need to do is
build enough personal brand relevance on
the short form channels to get enough
people that are willing to try your live
streams so that that view number doesn't
look suspiciously low. And that leads us
to step four. Once you have a critical
mass of personal brand value, let's call
it 25,000 followers on Instagram. You'll
then have a big enough pool so that when
you do live streams, you can get the
people at the level 15 from zero to go
give you a chance. The point is, and I
really want to underscore this, super
raw, long-formed live streams are a
horrible way to grow an audience from
zero, but they're an amazing way to
nurture a cold audience into a super
warm one. And the reason why is cuz the
YouTube algorithm today is just not
built in a way to really reward a super
raw, long- form live stream from someone
that has a very weak personal brand. But
if you have a slightly warmer audience,
they're an amazing way to heat those
people up quickly to get them to
purchase. All right. Now, before I go
into the next one, if you're a business
owner and you're trying to figure out
how to get better at content, whether
it's social media or YouTube, you like
the way I explain these things, but you
really want more tactics, I built a free
community with 65 free trainings just
for you. I cover things like algorithm,
storytelling, editing, formats.
Everything you'd need to go from zero to
really getting going on short form
social media or YouTube is in there.
It's called Wavy World. It's completely
free. We got 39,000 other business
owners that have gone through the
trainings and are all working together
to improve their content as a
collective. So, if you want to join, you
want an accountability group, you want
more in-depth focused trainings, Wavy
World is a no-brainer cuz it's free. I
got a link in the description if you
want to join. The third opportunity I'm
seeing on social media is the emergence
of what I call a super duper niche.
Think of a niche like the first level
topic selection. So, for example, social
media marketing might be a niche. A
super niche would be one level below
that. So let's say social media
marketing for business owners. Now a
super duper niche would be one level
below that. So let's say focusing only
on content psychology for social media
growth for business owners. Now in the
past super duper niches would not work.
They were way too narrow for you to be
able to grow big enough to monetize. And
that's because there was no method for
algorithmic discovery on these social
platforms. So, even if there were 30,000
people that were huge fans of the niche
thing that you covered, there was no way
for you to find them or for them to find
you. But now, the riches actually are in
the niches. And that's because the for
you algorithms have created a way for
you to find those 30,000 people really
fast. Their matching is super super
sophisticated. And because of this, the
big opportunity on social media for the
next couple years is to dominate and own
a super duper niche category. Here's
what I mean. In order to win on social
media, all you have to do is to become a
category cult brand. And this is just a
fancy way of saying you need somebody to
think of you when they have a problem
that you sell a solution for. You don't
need to become the most well-known
personal brand in a huge category. You
just need to own a super small slice of
that category that matches with an offer
that you sell. And this is because when
you're able to own a super duper niche,
people will attach that term to your
name and store it in their personal
brand mental library. A good example of
this is this guy Ganon Meyer. When I
think many chat automation on Instagram,
this guy occupies that row in the
database in my head. Now, he could have
made content about business, huge niche.
He could have made content about
marketing and business, still huge, but
slightly smaller. But no, he decided to
own Instagram automation via many chat
in the social media landscape. And the
reason this is so brilliant is because
by picking that small super duper niche,
there's a lot less surface area that he
has to cover in order to dominate and
own that plot of land. Imagine if you
were a king in the old days and you had
to govern over tens of thousands of
miles of land. It's just a lot of
surface area to control when other
people might come and try to slice off a
corner. But if you have a very small
kingdom 10 m wide, you can easily
monitor that and dominate it forever.
This is a great metaphor for thinking
about big niches versus super duper
niches. For Herosi to own the category
of business, he either has to have a
super large army patrolling or make so
much content that it's just impossible
for anyone to cut through. He's choosing
option B. But it's much easier for you
to pick a super duper niche slice way
over there in the corner that no one's
paying attention to and easily own it.
Now, the reason this is helpful is
because as the proliferation of AI
content goes up and the number of fake
creators that you're exposed to goes up,
it'll be harder and harder for the
viewer to remember your name in mass in
their brain. I like to think of this
like the Dunbar's number for the
internet. If I ask you to list all the
creators that you think of that you
really like, at the most you could list
150 to 200 off the top of your head, at
the absolute most. But if you tie a name
to a super duper niche term, as soon as
I say that term, those 200 go away and
you just think of the one person that
owns that term. So this term ownership
will become extremely valuable as AI
content begins to flood social media.
Now, the tactical suggestion for how you
take advantage of this is the following.
First, you want to figure out what
product, service, or offer you're going
to sell. The truth is, a lot of the
niche positioning problems you're
facing, not being able to figure out
what term to own, stems from the fact
that you don't have anything at the
bottom of the funnel anchoring you to
figure out what content you should be
making. The reason you feel lost is
because you don't know what super duper
niche will help make money for you once
you do have an offer at play. So, just
flip the tables and start with figuring
out what the offer or product or service
is going to be. Start there and work
backwards. Now, based on that offer, you
want to think about what is the
narrowest set of terms or keywords that
I could own so that when a stranger
hears those words and sees my channel,
the offer I'm selling feels like a
compliment. The ramp is clean from one
to the other. Whatever that term is, you
want to go allin on owning that super
duper niche category. Now, the way to
own it is actually very simple. You just
make a ton of content specifically on
that super duper niche term or small set
of keywords and you do not deviate
beyond that for 12 to 18 months. Now, by
doing this, your views and aggregate
will go down because the TAM is just
smaller than a super broad category, but
your trust and your sell through and
revenue will go way up. And if you're
still struggling with how to come up
with your super duper niche, this is
kind of the formula that I like to look
at. It's topic time buyer avatar time
method time visual format if you're
making a visual form of content. Those
four things multiplied together equals a
super duper niche. So for me on this
channel it would be social media
marketing is the topic. The buyer is a
business owner. I'm making social media
marketing content for a business owner.
The method is kind of like educational
breakdowns. That's kind of the type or
method that I cover. And then the visual
format are these visual explainers where
I include motion graphics and charts to
help visualize what I say. There's not a
clean word for that. Those four things
multiplied together is my super duper
niche. That's the lane I own on YouTube.
I would challenge you to find anybody
else that would beat me at that lane.
That's cuz I narrowed it down so it was
easy for me to own. You want to use that
formula to help guide how you position
your super duper niche so you have more
clarity in how to build it. All right.
Another huge opportunity for the next 6
to 12 months on social media is to lean
into personal narrative-driven
storytelling as a content format,
especially for short form video. And
this complements perfectly what I was
saying before about the counterculture
movement against AI. People are starting
to get sick of the transactional tactic
type videos that people repeat over and
over again. For one, these tactics are
usually not unique because everybody is
copying everybody else and nobody's
coming up with new stuff. And two, when
the human viewer is not able to verify
the human side of the content, they just
like it less. People are sick of seeing
the faceless AIdriven and they want to
verify with their own eyes that the
content is being made by a human. And so
this story format of personal
storytelling is really starting to
outperform on social media. Now, when I
say personal storytelling, what exactly
do I mean? I like to think of it as
story wrapped education. Imagine you had
like a a gobstopper. You have education
in the middle and then there's a story
that wraps around that educational
value. Personal stories usually include
some type of learning experience, some
situation, scenario, some arc that the
creator went through. It's usually told
from a point of eye instead of point of
view. So it's like I read 350 books this
year. Here's what I learned from it.
Then the creator usually frames how they
felt before, during, and after. A lot of
it's about emotional transfer. And
usually it ends up sharing a lesson,
piece of wisdom, or tidbit. That's that
educational piece. Now, some really good
examples of personal storytelling in
this narrative-driven style would be
Khloe Sha, Ken Jandra, and Yanni
Mavrous. These are three people I've
highlighted before on the channel
because they're really blowing up right
now using this style. Now, storytelling
content is a bit harder to produce than
pure educational because A, it requires
you to figure out what the narrative arc
is going to be of the story. And B, and
probably more important, it's kind of
hard to come up with visuals that are
not shot by you when you're describing a
narrative story that you experienced.
And so, this is why the visual format
that works for this is this like visual
narrative style where people are
shooting clips of themsel in the world,
almost acting out the scenes they're
describing with sometimes graphics
overlaid. Now, will this personal
storytelling be the most popular
storytelling structure that works for
short form forever? Probably not. But is
there a huge opportunity to lean into
this narrative-driven firstp person
storytelling style right now?
Absolutely. If you're in a niche where
there isn't anybody or there's only a
couple people that are doing this
narrative driven first-person
storytelling style, you should own this
right now. There's no better switch to
flip in terms of growth than using this
narrative storytelling in a niche that
doesn't have it. I'm telling you right
now, it is working super well. All
right, another massive shift in the
social media world and an opportunity
that not a lot of people are talking
about is the emergence of massive
companies and big brands building
in-house studios to produce organic
social media content. Simply put, the
big brands are going in-house for their
content. They're building these huge
production houses and studios to double
down on social media. And this is really
because every modern CMO is realizing
that their company is actually a media
company in disguise. And most of them
have been sleeping on social media,
organic content, or farming it out to
agencies that are just not as in the
trenches with what they should be doing.
For example, Dick Sporting Goods, huge
sporting goods store in the US, is
building an in-house production house.
They just announced it. Sephora has been
doing the in-house content studio play
for a couple years. They're doubling
down on it. Chick-fil-A is trying to
build a Netflix streaming service
competitor, which is kind of crazy to
read that headline. So, they're doubling
down as well. And this is just the tip
of the iceberg, the start for these
massive companies going allin on short
form organic content because the truth
is every major brand is going to realize
they need to bring the content to the
core of the marketing flywheel. Before
content was a spoke in the marketing
stack. Now content is the core and
everything else funnels off of the
content. So between whether it's organic
content or Tik Tok shop or these
vertical episodic series, brands can
just not afford to take lightly the
organic social media platform and the
place that has in their marketing stack.
And so these contest studios are going
to look like a lot of different things.
They're going to be pods of UGC
creators. They're going to be more
proper in-house production teams.
They're going to be repurposed ad
agencies that go under that then go
in-house. You're going to see a lot of
different flavors of what these look
like over the next few years. But here's
the big opportunity. If you're listening
to this and you're trying to figure out,
okay, what's the point of this, right?
If I'm not a CMO, how can I take
advantage? When there's a huge shift
from one marketing category to another,
from legacy media to social media, there
are millions of picks and shovel
providers, whether they're individual
creators or small agencies that need to
help these companies make this
transition. So, what does that mean? If
you run an editing agency, huge
opportunity. If you do script writing,
if you're a UGC creator, if you run a
small pool of talent that are all
creators for brands in a certain
category, an entirely new infrastructure
on the marketing side is going to be
built for these big companies where
they're all going in-house, but they
don't know what they're doing. So,
closing that gap is a huge tens of
billions, if not hundreds of billions of
dollar opportunity that really nobody is
positioned to take well. And the reality
is, if you run a lean agency, it only
takes one of these Fortune 500 clients
and you've got a seven or eight figure
business per year, it's super
profitable. So, I expect to see a lot
more on this front. As we see more
updates on the brand side, I will let
you guys know and keep you in the loop.
All right, guys. That's all I've got for
this video. As a recap, we covered the
five most interesting trends happening
right now in social media and the
tactics for how you can take advantage
of each of those opportunities. As
always, I'm trying my best to share
unique and novel takes that you just
don't hear everywhere else. If you're
trying to get an edge, this is the best
channel for you. I'm not going to
regurgitate stuff that's out in the
market. I'm really trying to come up
with cutting edge different approaches
for how you can help dominate social
media and YouTube. If you're a business
owner and you want to improve your
content, you should definitely join Wavy
World. Like I said, it's free. I pretty
much couldn't put more value into it. 65
free trainings, 39,000 other
entrepreneurs. So, you get a peer group
community and you get the best training
in the world, all for free. It's better
than 99% of paid courses. That's what I
wanted to come up with, and so that's
where we're at. You get a free invite
link in the description if you want to
join. All right, we'll see you guys on
the next video. Peace.